[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO/ET-related
intelligence.
Today, we are discussing the
phenomenon over New Jersey.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: Well, all this talk
we've been hearing about
on the media and I, of
course, am from New Jersey--
I have a lot of people reporting
in from there about these drones
and these plasma balls.
Now we both have different intel
on that, which we'll go over.
But I'd like to get
your opinion on this.
So what's going
on in New Jersey?
>>DOTY: Well, we have
a phenomenon involving
a lot of aerial
devices and crafts
in the skies over New
Jersey and other places,
not just New Jersey.
We can talk about really
all over the world.
But, primarily, news
reports are centering
around New Jersey and eastern
Pennsylvania and southern New
York.
So we have a phenomenon
of drones possibly,
unidentified balls of light,
or maybe plasma, and orbs.
>>EMERY: First, the
drones came, remember?
>>DOTY: Yes.
>>EMERY: And then the
orbs were flying around.
And then, all of a sudden, you
have these plasma balls that are
usually only found in lightning
storms or high electrical
storms, where these
lightning plasma balls--
you can look it
up; it's online--
that float down from the
sky or from your ceiling
and into the ground.
It takes a lot of energy
is what I'm getting at.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
So, first of all, let's
talk about drones.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: The first
phenomena that was filmed
were suspected unknown
drones around New Jersey,
the central portion
of New Jersey,
and in the southern part
around Bridgeton, New Jersey.
Those were the very
first videos that
were put out on the internet.
What were they?
They were drones.
Some of them were
smaller drones, easily
identified as personal drones.
Like, I have a drone.
You have a drone
that can be flown.
The second part of that are the
bigger drones that are filmed--
the guy from Bridgeton,
New Jersey, films--
His video explicitly
showed these large drones,
and these drones did not have
the FAA lighting system on them.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They had
lights all around,
which is not characteristic
of an aircraft that's
registered with the FAA.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: OK, what was that?
We don't know.
Asking the state police,
the New Jersey State Police,
who were at the scene when this
guy was filming, what is that?
Is that one of yours?
Is that the state police, or is
that a government agency one?
They didn't know.
Asking the Pentagon, they
don't know what that is.
So that's number one
unexplained right there,
a large drone with
lights all around it,
that can't be explained.
And then we go to the orbs.
That's interesting because
sometimes these orbs
are seen close to drones.
And other times,
these orbs are seen
close to plasma balls or these
other balls of light up there.
Like, as you say, there's
a certain phenomenon,
a meteorological
phenomenon, that
can cause these orbs or
lightning balls coming out
of a cloud during
a lightning storm.
That's given.
OK, we know that.
Well, during these
videos that were taken,
there wasn't any
storm in New Jersey.
>>EMERY: Nothing.
>>DOTY: The skies
were clear, so we
can't say they were lightning
balls from a thunderstorm
because there weren't
any thunderstorms.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: So now we've got
these three different things
we have to characterize
what they could possibly be
and where they could
possibly come from.
The drone, the big drones,
the unidentified drones,
who has those drones?
Are they extraterrestrials?
Are they ours, some kind
of secret program, maybe
a SAP program that we're flying
them for some particular reason?
Or are they a foreign adversary
coming from the Chinese
or the Russians?
Some of them are
seen over the ocean,
over the Atlantic
Ocean, or coming close
to the surface of the ocean.
Are they coming out of the
ocean from a submarine,
something submersible?
We can map every ship
along the Eastern seaboard.
We know every single ship.
The Coast Guard keeps an
eye on the dangerous ones,
the Iranian tankers that
come up and down the coast.
The Coast Guard protects
our 12-mile limit,
but they also are farther out.
And that's the United States
Navy's responsibility.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: So we know
what's out there.
If drones are being
launched from ships,
don't you think the United
States government would know
that and do something about it?
But the Pentagon
spokesman says, we
don't know what these
other drones are.
>>EMERY: Right.
So what do you think
they are, Rick?
>>DOTY: Well, I think some
of the drones are not drones.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They're some form of
an extraterrestrial craft that
can fly in and out,
maybe of a dimension,
because one minute
they're there,
and the next minute they're not.
This one news camera
person on the scene--
I can't remember exactly where
they were in New Jersey--
but they were filming
this huge drone.
They're calling it a drone.
They're saying it's a drone, and
it doesn't have any FAA lighting
system.
But it has lights all around
it, and it's swirling.
It looked more like a flying
saucer to me than a drone,
but they're referring
to it as a drone.
>>EMERY: Of course.
>>DOTY: So the public is saying
this is some kind of a drone.
But what the news
people are confusing
is that wasn't a drone.
That was something other than
a drone, which possibly could
be an extraterrestrial craft.
Now where did it come from?
I have no idea.
But another video
shows this plasma ball
with this object
flying out of it,
and that object that flew out
of it flew around with no lights
on it.
Now I would say
that's definitely
an extraterrestrial craft,
interdimensional craft,
coming from maybe
a parallel universe
or something to that
effect because it
didn't have any lights on it.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: As I know and I've
read in the US intelligence
manuals and even some
classified reports,
as one of the distinct
characteristics
of an extraterrestrial
craft is that they
don't have FAA lighting system.
In fact, most of the
extraterrestrial crafts that we
know and we can identify--
the United States government,
I'm saying--
can identify flying in
our airspace at times
have no lights at all because
they don't need lights.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They don't
need a lighting system.
They don't need to
illuminate themselves,
and they don't
need to illuminate
the area in front of them.
They can do this without lights.
So if you see something
that don't have any lights,
that's when you have
to be worried about it.
If you see something
with lights, maybe--
now these large ones that we're
talking about with these lights
all around it,
that could possibly
be an extraterrestrial craft
that is trying to fool us
into thinking it's a terrestrial
craft, when in actuality it's
an extraterrestrial.
>>EMERY: And I've seen
that before, yeah.
>>DOTY: And, yeah,
I've seen that before.
I've seen reports
of it, classified
documents, many of them.
And then there's some
fixed-wing planes
that don't look conventional.
You see these planes coming
in, and you identify them
as, OK, there's an
airport over here.
That's a commercial
plane, or that's
a fixed-wing plane coming in for
a landing, but it doesn't land.
These smaller fixed-wing planes
do other aerial maneuvers.
Now why are they doing that?
Are they government keeping the
track of the drones or the orbs?
But the drones, I'm sure, are
being tracked by the United
States government.
>>EMERY: Yes, absolutely.
>>DOTY: Either by
the satellite system
that we have to protect
the United States
or by the United States
government launching
their own drones to try to
identify the unknown drones that
are flying in the air.
And that's the confusion.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: Because when you see
all these people taking videos
of what's occurring over
New Jersey and other places
on the East Coast, you see
all these different aircrafts
in the air.
And like I said
earlier, some of them
can easily be identified
as personal drones
people are flying trying
to get their pictures, too.
And you take all that away,
the bigger drones following
the other bigger drones are
probably the United States
government, trying to identify
what those other drones are.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And I think that's
one of the problems we have
right now is the government
doesn't know what
some of these other drones are.
And this is an
ironic part of it.
We get the reports
from New Jersey
because of the American press.
But if you look at
the world press,
and then I keep track of that--
>>EMERY: I do that, too, yeah.
>>DOTY: Japan has
experienced the same thing.
Northern India has
Germany, Norway, Denmark,
South Africa, South Africa
had a rash of these drones.
They called them drone
sightings, which are not
characteristics of real drones.
They couldn't identify
what they are,
and Japan suffered
through the same thing.
Now there's this other
phenomena that occurred,
a cargo ship that is
sailing south of Sri Lanka.
And they photographed
this object
coming out of the water that
appeared to be a drone to them.
And they identified it as a
Panamanian-flagged cargo ship.
It came out of the water.
They said it was a drone,
had some lights on it.
It flew up straight
up in the air.
It circled the ship a few
times, and it went back
in the water in
front of that ship.
Now, what could that be?
Now, that's entirely
different than what
we're seeing in New
Jersey, although there
are some reports of these
drones coming out of the ocean
offshore off the Atlantic.
>>EMERY: Rick, now
there's reports
in New Jersey about these drones
releasing some sort of mist,
spray, you know, gas, fog.
What could you
tell us about this?
What is it releasing?
>>DOTY: Well, let's
go back a little bit.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: When this first occurred
in December, the United States
government, specifically the
National Nuclear Security
Administration, deployed a
NEST team, a Nuclear Emergency
Support Team, to
Joint Base Fort Dix.
>>EMERY: Dix, yeah.
>>DOTY: And McGuire.
And along with that, they sent
a unit out of the 21st Ordnance
Company out of Albuquerque.
And that company is
a Render Safe Team.
They render safe improvised
nuclear devices or WMDs.
OK, along with that, they
sent some helicopters,
specialized helicopters.
Now we haven't talked
about this yet,
but some of the things
that were flying in the air
were, in fact, helicopters
and military drones.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: We know that.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: There's a technique
used by the military or the DOE
to try to detect
ionized radiation.
And there's a mist
that they can release,
and that mist falls or is
attracted to radiation,
ionized radiation.
And, therefore, that's the way
that they could search and find
maybe a possible radiological
dispersal device,
an improvised nuclear device,
or some radiation that isn't
supposed to be in the area.
So some of that mist can
be explained by the fact
that the DOE has a--
the Department of Energy, which
contains the National Nuclear
Security Administration,
they have these teams there.
>>EMERY: So this mist comes out.
It concentrates on something
on the nuclear isotopes
of the radiation,
radioactive isotopes.
And then they have
another device,
like a satellite, that
picks up and says, wow,
there's definitely
something in this area.
>>DOTY: Yeah, now we're
getting into a lot
of possible classified stuff.
But there are ways that we can
detect where a nuclear weapon is
or an improvised nuclear device.
And when we talk about an
improvised nuclear device,
we're talking about
something that is created
by a terrorist group or some--
>>EMERY: Some makeshift, right.
>>DOTY: Country, and it's
making a nuclear bomb,
not in a conventional way of
going through a manufacturing
of Los Alamos or Sandia.
They make it themselves
using fissionable material.
And those are the most deadly
ones because, number one,
they're not--
>>EMERY: Safe.
>>DOTY: They might
not-- they're not safe.
And they might not get a
full yield and so forth.
But we have ways
of detecting that.
And a lot of that
stuff is classified,
so I'm not going
to go into that.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: The little I know about
it because there's a lot I
don't know about it but--
>>EMERY: Well,
this is concerning.
I mean, we're talking about
getting our best units
to find something radioactive.
I mean, this is a red
flag, wouldn't you say?
>>DOTY: Yeah, and then what
complicates it all is we send
these teams there, and then
there's reports that they sent
the 101st Airborne there, a
unit of the 101st Airborne.
There's infantry soldiers.
They have specific missions.
Why would they send
them to New Jersey?
What's there in New Jersey?
Is there a hostile
enemy force there?
Why-- but--
>>EMERY: There's a
lot of them, right?
Wasn't it like 800 of them?
>>DOTY: Yeah, I think
there's 800 of them.
>>EMERY: That's a lot of people.
>>DOTY: Yeah, that's
like a battalion of them,
a couple companies of them.
Why are they there?
And nobody-- and the
Pentagon spokesman
won't even address that.
They go on to the next question.
They ignore the
reporter's question
about the deployment
of these support units
or these support elements of the
United States military, the Air
Force.
And the 21st Ordnance is a joint
explosive ordnance disposal
unit.
So they have Navy, Marine, Army,
and Air Force explosive ordnance
disposal specialists.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They're really unique.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: And these
guys are elite teams,
a team of people that can go
in and defuse a nuclear weapon.
And why were they doing this?
This is what really
complicates the understanding
of these drones,
different sized ones,
these plasma balls or plasmoids,
whatever you want to call them,
and these orbs.
Now you put this all together.
What does it come out to?
It comes out to some
kind of confusion
or maybe a military operation
going on in there, maybe
against UAPs or
extraterrestrials
or a foreign government,
although the State
Department says there's no
foreign government involved
in this.
But the Pentagon spokesman
won't really address that.
But they do say they don't--
they can't identify
some of these drones.
>>EMERY: Right.
So let's talk a little
bit about these plasma
balls and, of course, the
orbs and those relations
and the differences
because they are seen right
after these drones
were deployed.
So let's talk a
little bit about that.
>>DOTY: OK, well,
let's, first of all,
address the plasma balls.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: We can see them.
They've been photographed
literally hundreds of times
at different locations.
They are not stationary.
These plasma balls move.
There's really some good
videotapes of these plasma balls
moving, and not only in a
certain small area of the sky
but all across the sky.
Some of them start
at the horizon
and then go up to a certain
perigee and then come back down
and then come back.
Now if it was something
that was launched by us,
it would be directional,
without any kind
of control or navigation.
These things seem to
have that navigation
ability of moving around.
Some of them are here in one
particular part of the sky,
and then they move.
Or I've even seen some of them
jump to another part of the sky.
Well, how do you explain that?
>>EMERY: Are you saying
they're intelligent?
>>DOTY: They're moving
in an intelligent manner.
Now, I'm not a scientist.
But I'm a person with
some common sense,
and I know something
about flight operation
and aerodynamics.
These things don't have wings.
They're moving.
So do they have a
propulsion system?
They don't appear to
have a propulsion system.
They look like a ball
of plasma or energy.
Now how can a ball of
energy or a ball of plasma
move like it's moving?
Is it being
intelligently controlled
by something on the ground?
>>EMERY: Are the
orbs controlling it?
>>DOTY: Are the
Or maybe the drones
are controlling it.
Maybe some of these huge drones
are creating these plasma balls
and are controlling them.
But then, again,
there are some videos
that show just the plasma
balls and nothing else.
There's no other aircrafts in
the air but these plasma balls.
And I wish-- and I'm sure
our government because we
have a lot of top scientists
out there with DARPA contracts--
my former employee,
Dr. Hal Puthoff,
probably is working on
trying to figure out
what some of these things
are, unless we already
know what they are, but they're
not telling the American people.
>>EMERY: So these plasma
balls, how are they
different than the orbs?
Because they both are bright.
They both fly around.
What's the differences
that you can explain?
>>DOTY: Well, the
plasma ball is larger.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: Some of them are
100 to 300 feet in diameter.
And so those are something
more than an orb.
An orb is a smaller
object, light object,
that can fly around and maneuver
in a number of different ways,
defying gravity at times, moving
and stopping and coming at you
and then turn around
and going away from you.
So these are orbs that
could be a number of things.
It could be, number one, some
kind of a reconnaissance object
used by maybe us or
maybe extraterrestrials.
A lot of times, you see--
if you go back and look at
UFO sightings but way, way,
way back and some
of the good videos,
the professional videos that
are taken about years ago,
and we're talking from the '50s
on-- you see these orbs first.
And then, shortly later, you see
the UFO, their flying saucer.
So I would-- and I think most
people within the intelligence
community and in the aeronautics
community that studies these
things, especially
the Air Force--
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: They deduce that
these orbs are probably
a reconnaissance device.
They come and check things
out before the bigger craft
comes in.
Even back in the '70s, we've
seen these orbs flying around.
Now jump to our current
time, and we see these orbs.
And then we see these
other things appearing.
Sometimes, the orbs are there
before the plasma balls.
Sometimes, the plasma balls are
there, and then the orbs appear.
So it's very confusing to
try to understand all this.
>>EMERY: Yeah, I
agree with that.
The orbs, through my
experience with ETs,
is either an ET craft, an ET
itself in a different light
body, or a civilization.
So it makes sense to me why they
would send out these little orbs
to go check everything out.
That's just normal.
>>DOTY: Yeah, it's a
form of a reconnaissance.
We do this on a battlefield.
>>EMERY: We do it all the time.
>>DOTY: We use these small
planes or these drones
that we shoot out, and
they survey a battlefield
and detect the enemy
or any defenses
the enemy put up against you.
And then now the
infantry unit can
move to an area that's
already been surveilled,
so we use something like this.
So why not the extraterrestrials
doing the same thing?
Now is this based on something
else that's going to happen,
a planned event?
There are some people out there
within the scientific community
and with other communities,
the advanced working group,
thinks that there's going
to be an event that happens
in the very near future.
Now whether it's in 2025 or
2026 or 2027, whatever year,
there's something
supposed to happen.
>>EMERY: Rick, for the audience,
what do you mean by "event"?
>>DOTY: Well, that's
a good question.
And I call it an event because
people within the intelligence
communities calls it an event.
They don't identify what
the event is going to be.
And when you really
press the people,
they say anything else is
going to be classified,
so we can't talk about it.
But there's people out
there, such as John Ramirez,
retired CIA, and others--
I'm not going to
name all of them--
but there's many
others out there
that talk about this
event that could possibly
be an extraterrestrial event.
The extraterrestrials might
be identifying themselves
in this near future.
And maybe all these
things that we're
seeing, the orbs, the
drones, unidentified drones,
and these plasma balls
are an announcement
by the extraterrestrials,
hey, getting our attention.
>>EMERY: I like that.
>>DOTY: And they certainly
have our attention
that something's
going to happen.
And we're just going to let you
know what's going to happen.
And this is why we are seeing
these things, and the plasma
balls, the orbs, and
these unidentified drones,
to prepare the American public.
Maybe we're just not getting
what the announcement is.
>>EMERY: Yeah, the message.
>>DOTY: Yeah, we're missing
the message, so to speak,
and we're spending too much
time on, rather than trying
to understand, then
looking at the phenomena
without looking deep into
the understanding of it.
>>EMERY: Do you think
that this could be
a false flag for other agendas?
>>DOTY: What I know about
the intelligence community
and having been involved
in false flag events
and operations,
this could very well
be some form of a
false flag event
to prepare for something
else in the future.
Now I don't know
what's going to happen.
You don't know what's
going to happen.
Nobody really knows what's
going to happen outside--
in the public arena.
The government, I believe--
I absolutely believe that the
United States intelligence
service knows what's going
to happen in the near future,
whether it's going to be
in a year or two years
or whenever it's going to be.
They know.
How they know, I wish
I knew, but they know.
And maybe there was some
event or some warning
that was given to us.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: By maybe
a contact we have
with an extraterrestrial
race, where
they told us, hey, look out
for this particular time period
because we're coming back.
Or some other species are going
to be coming back and doing
something on Earth, announcing
themselves or some other event.
So maybe, if you
look back at what's
been occurring, not just
here, not just in New Jersey,
but all over the world--
>>EMERY: All over.
>>DOTY: It could be a warning
of an arrival or an event,
where the extraterrestrials are
going to come, arrive on Earth,
and make their
presence known, OK?
I think that's probably in a
neighborhood of a 60% chance
of that's happening.
But I think my own feeling--
this is Rick Doty's feeling--
is that we're going
to have an arrival.
We're going to have
extraterrestrials coming
to this planet, and not
in a hostile manner,
but just to make
their presence known.
It might be a glorious
time for this planet
because now we can interface
with an extraterrestrial race
in open public.
We've been doing
it for 70 years.
But now everybody
knows what to expect,
and I think it's not going
to be a hostile event.
I think it's going to be a
glorious event because we
know then when this happens,
that we're not alone
in the universe.
>>EMERY: Well, Rick, I think
this is great information,
great intel.
People have been waiting
to hear this stuff,
so I'm glad you came on
the show to talk about it.
So thanks for being here.
>>DOTY: Well, it's a
pleasure being here,
and I hope we have
a happy ending.
>>EMERY: I do, too.
I do believe so.
I'm Emery Smith, and this
is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]